README.md, before:

# An IO thread and a worker thread walk into a bar: a microbenchmark story

This repository contains the source code, results and scripts used to generate the data used in the Quarkus blog post `An IO thread and a worker thread walk into a bar: a microbenchmark story`

Docker is used to create the environment available to the System Under Test

We use [wrk2](https://github.com/giltene/wrk2) to drive the load from the client machine to the server running the System Under Test.  To understand why we ues wrk2, please read http://highscalability.com/blog/2015/10/5/your-load-generator-is-probably-lying-to-you-take-the-red-pi.html  

Running the benchmark is managed by a [qDup](https://github.com/Hyperfoil/qDup)  script.  qDup is an automation tool that provides a way to coordinate multiple terminal shell connections for queuing performance tests and collecting output files  

Result parsing is provided by a custom jbang script

Timing of system startup and results graphing is provided by [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) scripts

## Running the benchmark

### Pre-requsites

 - Docker
 - [sdkman](https://sdkman.io/)
 - [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
 - [qDup](https://github.com/Hyperfoil/qDup/releases/tag/release-0.6.3)
 - [wrk2](https://github.com/giltene/wrk2)
 - [jbang](https://github.com/maxandersen/jbang)

### Setup

1. Ensure [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) deamon is running on the server that you wish to run the applications. Please refer to Docker installation documentation for your particular operating system.

2. Install [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) on the server that will be used to run the benchmark applications.

3. Install [sdkman](https://sdkman.io/install) on the server that will be used to run the benchmark applications.

4. Install [jbang](https://github.com/maxandersen/jbang) on the server that will be used to run the benchmark applications.

    ```shell script
    $ sdk install jbang
    ```

4. Build and install [wrk2](https://github.com/giltene/wrk2/wiki/Installing-wrk2-on-Linux) on the client machine that will be used to drive load to the server

    CentOS / RedHat / Fedora
    
    ```shell script
    sudo yum -y groupinstall 'Development Tools'
    sudo yum -y install openssl-devel git
    git clone https://github.com/giltene/wrk2.git
    cd wrk2
    make
    # move the executable to somewhere in your PATH
    # to find your PATH
    sudo echo $PATH
    # Select appropriate PATH
    # CentOS 7 with cPanel PATH example: sudo cp wrk /usr/local/bin
    sudo cp wrk /somewhere/in/your/PATH
    ```
    
    Ubuntu/Debian (clean box)
    
    ```shell script
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y build-essential libssl-dev git zlib1g-dev
    git clone https://github.com/giltene/wrk2.git
    cd wrk2
    make
    # move the executable to somewhere in your PATH
    sudo cp wrk /usr/local/bin
    ```
4. Ensure that you are able to open a remote SSH connection to the client and server machines from your current machine, without the need to enter a password.

    You can do this by adding your public ssh key to `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` on the client and server machines

5. Modify the following lines `scripts/qDup/benchmark.yaml` to point to your client and server machines

    ```yaml
   ...
    hosts:
      client: {USER}@{CLIENT_HOST}:22
      server: {USER}@{SERVER_HOST}:22
   ...
     TEST_ENDPOINT : http://{SERVER_HOST}:8080/hello/Bob
     ENVIRONMENT_URL: http://{SERVER_HOST}:8080/environment
   ...
    ``` 

   where;
   - `{USER}` is the username you wish to connect to the remote machine with
   - `{CLIENT_HOST}` is the fully qualified domain name of the client machine to run generate load
   - `{SERVER_HOST}` is the fully qualified domain name of the server machine with the docker deamon already running in
     step (1)

6. Run the benchmark script with
   qDup: `java -jar {path_to_qDup}/qDup-0.6.3-uber.jar -B ./results/data ./scripts/qDup/benchmark.yaml`.

   N.B. this script may appear to freeze, it takes approx 30 mins to run and will not always write output to the
   terminal.

7. After the run has complete, process the run data with `processResults.sh`

    ```shell script
    $ ./processResults.sh 4 {CLIENT_HOST} {SERVER_HOST}
    ```   

   where;
    - `4` is the number of cpus (this is used to calculate the % cpu utilization)
    - `{CLIENT_HOST}` is the full qualified hostname of the client machine defined in  `scripts/qDup/benchmark.yaml` in step (5)
    - `{SERVER_HOST}` is the fully qualified domain name of the server machine defined in  `scripts/qDup/benchmark.yaml` in step (5)

8. Results and graphs will be available in `./results/runResult.json` and `./results/graphs/` respectively.

## Results 

Quarkus 999-SNAPSHOT

| Quarkus - 999-SNAPSHOT - 4 CPU's | Worker Pool | IO Thread |
| --- | --- | --- |
|Mean Build Time (ms) |  |  |
|Mean Test Time (ms) |  |  |
|Mean Start Time to First Request (ms) |  |  |
|Max RSS (MB) |  |  |
|Max Throughput (req/sec) |  |  |
|Max Req/Sec/MB |  | 


## Test Environment

### Server

| benchserver4 |  |
| --- | --- |
| Hardware | HP ProLiant DL380 Gen9
| CPU's |  2 x Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E5-2640 v3 @ 2.60GHz| 
|  | 8 cores per socket, +HT, 32 cores total |
| Memory | 256GB |
| Storage | 2 x SanDisk ioDrive2 (600GB) - 2.4GB total |
|OS | Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 7.7 (Maipo) |
| Kernel | Linux benchserver4.perf.lab.eng.rdu2.redhat.com 3.10.0-1062.1.1.el7.x86_64 #1 SMP Tue Aug 13 18:39:59 UTC 2019 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux |

### Client

| benchclient1 |  |
| --- | --- |
| Hardware | HP ProLiant DL380 G7
| CPU's |  2 x Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU X5660  @ 2.80GHz 
|  | 6 cores per socket, +HT, 24 cores total |
| Memory | 64GB |
| Storage | 4 x 146GB 15K RAID |
|OS | Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 7.6 (Maipo) |
| Kernel | Linux benchclient1 3.10.0-229.el7.x86_64 #1 SMP Thu Jan 29 18:37:38 EST 2015 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/LinuxLinux benchclient1 3.10.0-229.el7.x86_64 #1 SMP Thu Jan 29 18:37:38 EST 2015 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux |

Commit message:

changed readme, tried to specifiy where exactly to install the needed setup applications (client-host, server-host, and machine to start the qDup Script from and generate the graphs; however this can also be done on the client-host and server-host themselves if they have good enough hardware).

README.md, after:

# An IO thread and a worker thread walk into a bar: a microbenchmark story

This repository contains the source code, results and scripts used to generate the data used in the Quarkus blog post `An IO thread and a worker thread walk into a bar: a microbenchmark story`

Docker is used to create the environment available to the System Under Test

We use [wrk2](https://github.com/giltene/wrk2) to drive the load from the client machine to the server running the System Under Test.  To understand why we ues wrk2, please read http://highscalability.com/blog/2015/10/5/your-load-generator-is-probably-lying-to-you-take-the-red-pi.html  

Running the benchmark is managed by a [qDup](https://github.com/Hyperfoil/qDup)  script.  qDup is an automation tool that provides a way to coordinate multiple terminal shell connections for queuing performance tests and collecting output files  

Result parsing is provided by a custom jbang script

Timing of system startup and results graphing is provided by [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) scripts

## Running the benchmark

### Pre-requsites

 - Docker
 - [sdkman](https://sdkman.io/)
 - [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
 - [qDup](https://github.com/Hyperfoil/qDup/releases/tag/release-0.6.3)
 - [wrk2](https://github.com/giltene/wrk2)
 - [jbang](https://github.com/maxandersen/jbang)

### Setup

1. Ensure [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) deamon is running on the server-host that you wish to run the
   applications. Please refer to Docker installation documentation for your particular operating system.

2. Install [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) on the server-host that will be used to run the benchmark applications, and
   the host that will be used to start the benchmark application from.

3. Install [sdkman](https://sdkman.io/install) on the server-host that will be used to run the benchmark applications,
   and the host that will be used to start the benchmark application from.

4. Install [jbang](https://github.com/maxandersen/jbang) on the host that will be used generate the graphs from the
   generated data.

    ```shell script
    $ sdk install jbang
    ```

4. Build and install [wrk2](https://github.com/giltene/wrk2/wiki/Installing-wrk2-on-Linux) on the client-host machine
   that will be used to drive load to the server

   CentOS / RedHat / Fedora

    ```shell script
    sudo yum -y groupinstall 'Development Tools'
    sudo yum -y install openssl-devel git zlib-devel
    git clone https://github.com/giltene/wrk2.git
    cd wrk2
    make
    # move the executable to somewhere in your PATH
    # to find your PATH
    sudo echo $PATH
    # Select appropriate PATH
    # CentOS 7 with cPanel PATH example: sudo cp wrk /usr/local/bin
    sudo cp wrk /somewhere/in/your/PATH
    ```
    
    Ubuntu/Debian (clean box)
    
    ```shell script
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y build-essential libssl-dev git zlib1g-dev
    git clone https://github.com/giltene/wrk2.git
    cd wrk2
    make
    # move the executable to somewhere in your PATH
    sudo cp wrk /usr/local/bin
    ```
4. Ensure that you are able to open a remote SSH connection to the client and server machines from your current machine, without the need to enter a password.

    You can do this by adding your public ssh key to `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` on the client and server machines

5. Modify the following lines `scripts/qDup/benchmark.yaml` to point to your client and server machines

    ```yaml
   ...
    hosts:
      client: {USER}@{CLIENT_HOST}:22
      server: {USER}@{SERVER_HOST}:22
   ...
     TEST_ENDPOINT : http://{SERVER_HOST}:8080/hello/Bob
     ENVIRONMENT_URL: http://{SERVER_HOST}:8080/environment
   ...
    ``` 

   where;
   - `{USER}` is the username you wish to connect to the remote machine with
   - `{CLIENT_HOST}` is the fully qualified domain name of the client machine to run generate load
   - `{SERVER_HOST}` is the fully qualified domain name of the server machine with the docker deamon already running in
     step (1)

6. Run the benchmark script with
   qDup: `java -jar {path_to_qDup}/qDup-0.6.3-uber.jar -B ./results/data ./scripts/qDup/benchmark.yaml`.

   N.B. this script may appear to freeze, it takes approx 30 mins to run and will not always write output to the
   terminal.

7. After the run has complete, process the run data with `processResults.sh`

    ```shell script
    $ ./processResults.sh 4 {SERVER_HOST} {CLIENT_HOST}
    ```   

   where;
    - `4` is the number of cpus (this is used to calculate the % cpu utilization)
    - `{CLIENT_HOST}` is the full qualified hostname of the client machine defined in  `scripts/qDup/benchmark.yaml` in step (5)
    - `{SERVER_HOST}` is the fully qualified domain name of the server machine defined in  `scripts/qDup/benchmark.yaml` in step (5)

8. Results and graphs will be available in `./results/runResult.json` and `./results/graphs/` respectively.

## Results 

Quarkus 999-SNAPSHOT

| Quarkus - 999-SNAPSHOT - 4 CPU's | Worker Pool | IO Thread |
| --- | --- | --- |
|Mean Build Time (ms) |  |  |
|Mean Test Time (ms) |  |  |
|Mean Start Time to First Request (ms) |  |  |
|Max RSS (MB) |  |  |
|Max Throughput (req/sec) |  |  |
|Max Req/Sec/MB |  | 


## Test Environment

### Server

| benchserver4 |  |
| --- | --- |
| Hardware | HP ProLiant DL380 Gen9
| CPU's |  2 x Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E5-2640 v3 @ 2.60GHz| 
|  | 8 cores per socket, +HT, 32 cores total |
| Memory | 256GB |
| Storage | 2 x SanDisk ioDrive2 (600GB) - 2.4GB total |
|OS | Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 7.7 (Maipo) |
| Kernel | Linux benchserver4.perf.lab.eng.rdu2.redhat.com 3.10.0-1062.1.1.el7.x86_64 #1 SMP Tue Aug 13 18:39:59 UTC 2019 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux |

### Client

| benchclient1 |  |
| --- | --- |
| Hardware | HP ProLiant DL380 G7
| CPU's |  2 x Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU X5660  @ 2.80GHz 
|  | 6 cores per socket, +HT, 24 cores total |
| Memory | 64GB |
| Storage | 4 x 146GB 15K RAID |
|OS | Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 7.6 (Maipo) |
| Kernel | Linux benchclient1 3.10.0-229.el7.x86_64 #1 SMP Thu Jan 29 18:37:38 EST 2015 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/LinuxLinux benchclient1 3.10.0-229.el7.x86_64 #1 SMP Thu Jan 29 18:37:38 EST 2015 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux |
